hi chris hello richard
here we are here we are
yes made possible only with new
technology
exactly me in north carolina in the usa
are our guests from all over the world i
see
yep absolutely and and also the
magic of you know even though we're
doing this now
um many other people will be watching
this in another now
and i want to welcome all the all those
people in all of those nails
yeah all those different timelines
yes it sure has been fun having this
dialogue with you
sharing ideas and perspectives on
reincarnation i've really been enjoying
it
me too me too it's i've learned a lot
from you
and uh and you know since i read your
book
um it really you know a book that really
blew
blew my mind um and had so many
resonances for me
diamonds and
you know lsd in the mind of the universe
those who haven't
heard about that yet it's quite
something
um chris's book so i recommend that
heartily
right at the beginning here and and the
the exploration that it's
afforded us um and the overlaps with my
work with the gene keys
so a real pleasure
real pleasure yeah
and we're we're also um you know it's an
ongoing
journey for us isn't it so we we we
haven't finished this is just us sort of
getting going i think so i think we're
probably going to explore this
subject in the coming months and
perhaps years and and keep diving deeper
into it
and yeah mining the insights that we
that we can and also involving um
a community of people to to engage with
us
like this today yes yeah that's going to
be fun i look forward to that
if we can get into as much trouble as we
got into with three hours just imagine
what we could do with more time
exactly help it
yeah yeah so
um i mean we might as well just jump
straight in we've
we've got a load of questions that have
already been sent in so the plan
here is we're going to um chris has and
i've sort of
sorted the questions that you've sent in
uh into categories and we're going to
kind of riff through them
first because they they cover broad um a
broad kind of
area of subjects connected to
reincarnation and thank you by the way
all those who send in your questions
they've really helped us to
um kind of sharpen and that and and some
of those questions lead to more
questions
and um you should know that we don't
know the answers to some of those
questions as well
and um but we're going to explore them
together so um
so we'll do that first and then we'll
come round to
the live q and a questions um that you
can put in
to the little q a button down here if
you've got any point you have a question
you can drop it in there
and hopefully we'll be able to get to as
many of those so we have 90 minutes
um so a lot to
you know a lot of time to explore
well you know we broke up the questions
there were so many good questions and
we could spend hours and hours just on
the questions that have already been
sent in
there were so many good questions we
broke them up into clusters
and so we thought let's go through some
of the ones in the first cluster just to
read some of the questions so that
the participants can get a sense of the
types of questions that people were
asked to
move to ask after they listened to
our dialogue and then we can just touch
on a few of those and then move into the
second
cluster of questions the first cluster
we identified as
how can we acquire personal knowledge of
our former lives because it's one
thing as many of you noted to have
someone tell you about these things
it's another thing to do your own
research and to investigate
these things and then it's another thing
still to have
personal experience of your own
former life history so let me just
hit a couple of these questions and then
one was
how can we get closer to completely
trusting the universe
and that reincarnation is true if all we
have is book knowledge on the topic
or stories from others and another
person wrote
is it possible to have a connection with
your previous lifetimes
in your present life in another
can you give us a practical method that
allows us to remember our past lives
and see the lessons that are working we
are working on in our
present life and what needs healing
in our present life now just to
touch lightly on these just to start on
these three questions maybe
and then one last one was
have each of you personally experienced
an awareness of your past lives leading
to the present
and was it beneficial for you to do so
okay
it strikes me that this whole question
of can we trust this material how can i
get
closer to this material how can i begin
to experience these things for myself
it's a it's a really important question
i personally started to accept
reincarnation on the basis of research
on the basis of people's uh research and
i think this research is abundant
there's a lot of wonderful books it's
just deserving
of our close attention but it's another
thing when you start to have
personal experience of your own lives
when you do the work when you go inside
either through contemplation or hypnosis
or some form of
past life therapy and you begin to
follow
your own memories back into your earlier
memories
and to begin to have this vivid
experience
that your consciousness is bigger than
your body
it's older than your body it has a
longer history than your body
and that does tend to cause this this
idea to live in your heart differently
than before don't you think richard
absolutely you know one of my favorite
questions in there was
once i know about the soul that gathers
all my lives into one
what are some practices to help me
embody it in my present human life
you know because we're talking about
contacting the energy of the soul you
know contacting the energy of
of the part of us that's eternal
you know and that's like that's a
journey
you know it's a journey we're all on and
most people listening to this
uh are very certainly on
um otherwise you wouldn't be here i'm
sure um
so yeah it's that's the first thing that
could to contact
these realms and to
discover or come across um
wisdom that's that's buried somewhere
inside you and
and i firmly feel that this these
memories are actually held in the
physical body
in the physicality of our body so right
now begin with that begin with
the knowing that or even the premise
that
inside your physical body somewhere
are memories held and um and so
this is going to involve some work with
the physical body
in some form um some relationship with
the physical
um with breathing with awareness
with mindfulness with as you said chris
with contemplation
and um you know there are there are lots
of ways
and there are lots of techniques and
tricks and things that can help you
and but rather than kind of give lots
right now um i'd rather just give a very
broad
guidance which is for me is
if you're keen to know more about your
own
story beyond this lifetime and that can
be forwards or backwards
um then start really listening
and to to really listen you need to
clear space in your life
so you need to have a practice i would
say
of listening or of contemplation or of
meditation
or perhaps of prayer or perhaps of you
know anything that begins to
enhance and increase that awareness of
those other frequencies beyond the body
and and so finding the ones that really
work well for you the techniques that
really
feel good to you and resonate with you
is going to be a good indication that
that's a good technique to begin to open
up
the inner world and then begin to create
the space so that the
and you can put out the the question i'd
like to know more
that's it you know it's already in you
if you're if you're here it's probably
already in you i'd like to know more
i'd like to remember more and what
you're doing is you're really
reaching out into the ethers of the
cosmos
and you're inviting a revelation or a
series of revelations
and and that's going to be a journey as
it has been for chris and myself and
we've gone very different ways
you know chris is and chris's root
towards this has been very different
from mine
you know and uh and so you have to
follow
begin with begin with what feels right
what you resonate with
um and then the rest will begin to open
up
inside you um you
i mean you've had more experience i
think chris
with the um past life therapy
community than i have so i maybe that
you could give a few
pointers in that well you know
when one of the questioners asked do we
have any practical suggestions for
techniques that can help people
and discover their former lives and
i don't want to go in that direction
this is
there are no shortcuts here there is a
matter
of living with this information and then
also there is the systematic exploration
of your deep consciousness which is just
a matter of following your
your memories to earlier and earlier
stages
and this is can be done with
contemplation as richard said
in various meditation exercises but then
i think it's also can be greatly aided
by
working with professionals who can
who can help you stay conscious at
deeper levels of your memory than you
might ordinarily be conscious of
because often when we go beneath our
personal unconscious we tend to get
fuzzy and maybe fall asleep but someone
can help you
keep focused as you go deeper and deeper
and it's often good to
focus on a particular issue or problem
or joy
and follow that to its root as you go
deeper within
but there are many ways inside some
people's memories are activated on a
massage table
some people's memories are meditated and
medi activated in meditation
but once you begin to appreciate that
your being is older than your body
and live with that idea every day it
just becomes increasingly natural
to live in a world that's saturated with
time
to live in relationships that are
saturated with time
and and with life projects it it makes
less and less sense
to try to compress everything that's
going on inside us into one lifetime
and more and more sense to let it unfold
into a larger agenda
yeah so another good tip is
don't be in a rush
don't take your time take your time you
have
all the time you need to explore
this amazing mystery and
the subject that we're opening up here
is not just about reincarnation and
rebirth it's it's it opens up into into
all all other questions all the deep
questions like what are we why are we
here
how does it work you know all those deep
questions that we have inside us that we
carry um
how can we be eternal how can we know
how can that work and then we're here
all those
those things and um in the work i do
with gene keys as many of
you will know um have this infuriating
habit of pointing people back
into them their own wisdom because
if you can begin when you can begin to
access the wisdom that lies inside you
and it's
and as i said start with your body with
the physical
um and begin to you know begin to kind
of
explore what's inside you and who you
are and begin to
work through some of the issues and the
shadows
and the trauma that you hold and begin
to forgive and begin to let go and
surrender
and go through this process of
transformation of inner transformation
which is a whole journey
in itself as as everyone here will know
then you start to open up space
inside for your wisdom to appear
and your memories to appear and they
will tell you
exactly what you need when you need it
not before not after just exactly when
you need it
the wisdom will come the memory will
come if it's meant to come
and it'll come in the way it's meant to
come so for some people are very visual
some people
are kind aesthetic like you go to a
place you're like i know i've been here
before
or you meet a person and you and you
look in their eye and you know you've
met them before those kind of things
or it could be um it's just a it's
visual
inside your cortex you know that you see
it or
there's so many different ways or it
could be a smell or it could be through
any of the senses
um or just an attunement to
synchronicities that are going on around
you you know and
as we get more heightened and more aware
of these
other realms we begin to pick up
on this interconnectivity
um that lies beyond this world
this this world that we are used to
inhabit
inhabiting you know and we realize there
are other dimensions
and we begin to resonate with those
dimensions and that's what we call
wisdom
you know when the when our when our
world begins to open up
and that clarity starts to come through
from those other dimensions and it
informs
this dimension we're living in in some
expansive way in some therapeutic
virtuous way inside us in in some
you know in some process of opening and
that's
so that's really you know if you have
these questions um whatever they are
know that you know the journey is always
you know one of going deeper and deeper
inside the question itself
and sinking right down into the heart of
it and
because it's a very valid question if
you hold it
and it probably has another question
hidden inside that and then another one
inside that and then begin to open up
and open up and open up so i want to
kind of say that as a
as a way of empowering everyone to
to trust in their own in your own
intuition and follow the threads
you know through the labyrinth yeah
yeah yes
shall we pull a couple of questions from
the nuts and bolts section
yes section category nuts and bolts
basically how does reincarnation work
you know
some of them are long answers some of
them are short answers here's a few that
could be answered quickly
do we stay in one ancestry do we hop
across to others
we hop you know do we think our next
reincarnation could be
as our children or us our grandchildren
and there's research that says yeah
could be
you know people reincarnate in families
and another person asked are animals
part of the reincarnation cycle
and the answer that i think in all
reincarnation cultures they say yeah
animals are part of the cycle but they
tend to be
at the earlier stages of one's
reincarnational lives because once you
have gone through a certain level of
cognitive development that you
can function at a human level there's
not too much to be learned from going
back and living lives as an animal so
they're part of our
heritage but not necessarily we don't
incarnate from a human to an animal even
though that's a very popular folk belief
it's not really
it's not really a belief held by more
informed thinkers of reincarnation
do you want to pull a couple of
questions from that list yeah
and and actually i'd like to go back to
the one about ancestry because
um i was recently talking to this um
wonderful
man tyson juncker porter who's an
aboriginal
um indigenous man and he was
talking to me about um
in a kind of interview we did together
um kind of informal one
we were talking about um transmigration
of souls and and in
many indigenous cultures there are kind
of
um they track their incarnations
and they have a there's a strong
intuition held
that within a tribal grouping or a
family grouping or a clan that's close
that's close-knit that's
operating like in those cultures
then there's a there's a real link
between
one's own person
and the great grandchildren or the great
grandparents
so it skips a couple of generations but
they see
um their great grandchildren as
the as the next wave coming through
and there's all kinds of
cross-patterning within that
um and there's no kind of fixed way of
understanding it but it does seem to be
a strong
firm tradition so and and recently for
myself my father died recently and i've
been going through all of his ancestral
things and
i found photographs of my great
grandparents as it happens
and um and i and i haven't um this is
before i knew
i'd spoken to tyson and heard this i
have an uncanny
resonance to them that i can't explain
and i it just came to me and i've and i
intuitively just put their photographs
on my desk
and out of all the photographs that i
looked at of ancestors and people like
that
those are the two that i really wanted
to look at and so i put them on top of
my desk and they've been sitting there
looking at me for the last
few months or months or so and so
there's something in that
i believe and um and i think it's
interesting that
yes it follows it does tend to follow
through family lineages but it also hops
about
um and there may there may be a deeper
storyline to that that um
we could go into another time but um
yeah i'll hook another question out
sorry i kind of wanted to touch that one
um there was also one about wounding
which was from the past
um one which i thought was important not
to miss
um about healing trauma in the body
and i think it connects to some of the
further later questions
which are um about the nature of
incarnation and
and how we um you know
what it really what it means to be in
one of these
and um the way i understand it through
the work i do
uh is that you know as as you
so well put chris you know we're we're
kind of moving on now from this
up and out philosophy of like um we have
to get
you know we have to attain this
enlightened state and then we're out and
we're beyond samsara
and we're moving on to another plane um
and i speak more about being
down and in you know that the more work
we do
internally inside ourselves to clear
patterns
to transmute shadows to
forgive and let go of trauma um for the
physical
emotional mental body of our being
then the more space there is for us to
incarnate more deeply
so it's like our soul is is a vast thing
it's
vast it exists in another dimension most
of us not here
most of us haven't incarnated actually
and and so the more that work we do
inside this
inside our being and particularly i
bring up deep focus to the belly
to the navel which is where everything
seems to cluster
so that as you clear your being then
more light can can actually come in
and live here and and more you know you
begin to radiate more you begin you
you begin to unlock more of that joy
and more of that um healing energy
that's inside you more of that trapped
energy because more of your soul can can
come here
you know it's a bit like you know that's
how heaven comes to earth
through us doing this shadow work and
then more of us incarnates
so i wanted to say that because it felt
like really important
connection between trauma and
incarnation
so i'm going to let you take it from
there well let me toss a couple of these
questions here
one of them i thought two of them stand
out to me one is
why do we forget our past lives in the
first place
and the variation on that question is if
we are all eternal
immortal and infinite what is the point
of reincarnation
in a different physical body could we
not all
live eternity different experiences
places and people
in one body and uh
when i've been talking about this to my
students i ask them to imagine
imagine that you are the creative
intelligence of the universe
and you wanted to design a system to
maximize
uh accelerated learning accelerated
development
and you had two scenarios you could
create a body
that would live a hundred thousand years
and then set them loose in the world to
gather a hundred thousand years worth of
experiences
and you could plan b would be to create
a body that lived 100 years
and every hundred years you pull it out
and then you plug it into the system
in a different body a different gender
different sex and different
you know role in society at the end of a
hundred thousand years
which of those two systems do you think
would produce
the most evolved being and i think we'd
recognize quickly that it's the
the one that has discontinuity because
discontinuity leads to greater variety
greater variety leads to
more accelerated learning and so the
reason we forget our former lives
is precisely i think so that we can
completely immerse ourselves in a new
set of circumstances that are different
and it's the differences that make them
challenging to us
and those differences basically
accelerate our learning process
that said there comes a time i think
when
the soul begins a process of not simply
differentiating and gathering
but a process of bringing in bringing
those lives together
and when we begin to assimilate
the lives that we have led what often
occur would manifest in our lives
first are the pain or the problems left
over
from these other incarnations the
tensions and stresses
but as we continue to work with those we
we begin to tap into i think also
the assets of those lives the virtues
and
and the capacities that those lives have
see i think much of our discussion of
reincarnation is influenced by the past
life literature
and the past life literature is a
therapeutic literature where people come
to therapy because they're
they're carrying a pain but i think most
of our past lives don't manifest as pain
in our present life
most of our past lives manifest as
capacities as skills as knowledge
as as a capacity to do things and know
things
so we have to be careful not to get our
our understanding
tilted just towards the pain that that's
a figural part but it's also
all the other things that are
[Music]
latent in those lives so there comes a
time when we begin to integrate those
lives and begin to bring them together
and that's a sort of a different stage
than earlier when we were going out and
seeking new and different experiences
and i think we are coming at a time in
history where the emphasis is on
in degrading our past not simply pushing
the boundaries of our past into new
territory
yeah that's a great point chris and i
think you know as
what we were talking about earlier um
you know that what's being processed
on an internal level then is manifesting
externally as well
by the way be careful of your mic
because sometimes it's scraping
um and so what we're seeing in the world
is we're seeing the after effect
of an inner transfer transmutation
that's taking place through the
through the group soul of humanity the
group consciousness
and um yeah those i was looking at that
question about
um you know are there parallel universes
to incarnate into and it made me
think of um you know when
you know when a soul evolves to that
level of
beginning to kind of you know beginning
to transmute more of the
karma of the of the world or of the you
know
of it of the suffering of the world
there also is a more there's a
seems to be a greater elasticity
available
to that being to that to that
aspect of consciousness so there's a
little bit more play
and that means that there's more um
ability to travel
to kind of transmigrate between
dimensions
and to be able to kind of break some of
the rules of the linearity
of incarnating sequences you know
because there's this
like idea that there's time and we're
moving with
like we're stitching this beautiful
cloth this fabric through
coming in and out of lives like that and
i think
that that i think probably there are
many lives where we do do that but i
think
as we gain in wisdom and
soul evolution sorry excuse me
um then we begin to kind of reach a
a higher velocity or higher frequency
where
time is more is more
flexible for us you know so
some of you asked like questions like
about
do we have specific do i have specific
memories of past lives and and i kind of
i i do in a way um
and i also don't because
um there's a part of my
mind stream that doesn't wish to cling
to locations in the space-time continuum
because there's a
playfulness i find in the way that my
mind operates it it reads the whole
stream
or it reads a whole fractal or a whole
pathway in a passage down a lineage
and then it feels a resonance somewhere
and then it follows another one and it
feels a resonance there
and they're forward and backward in time
you know so
they're not just historical they're more
mythic
um and so there's more of a
there's more of an interdimensional play
the more experienced let's say
a soul and a soul essence has gained
and i think that's kind of um that's
where we can cross over into other
dimensions
and perhaps um even travel
with beings from other dimensions um for
periods of time
so um and have connection and
connectivity and memory
of beings in other dimensions or
awareness of sometimes
twins even kind of like a twin energy in
another dimension
um and and that can appear to us in many
different ways and
i i've heard a lot of stories
down the years of people who have
that kind of um
feeling you know that they carry that
they carry that
they're not alone there's something
traveling with them and and whether they
give that a name or not
um it's something that's sort of that
they're
participating in another kind of level
of experiment
so i i i think there are so many layers
and intricacies within this woven
tapestry of time space
you know and what's clear is that in our
talk
chris we decided we started to explore
this notion
of deep time uh where you begin to
kind of step outside the space time
dimension and then you know
10 000 years on the earth can pass
you know as a single stitch in time out
of the form
that's an almost instantaneous so we we
have that idea that oh
i may not you know it's like one of my
last incarnations
i feel is quite a long time ago and
um and so that might seem like oh i've
been waiting around in some
other plane for a long time but actually
that was that could at that
time was instantaneous you know so it
was just a bigger loop
in the stitching rather than lots of
little ones it was like a bigger loop
within the time continuum
and then also there's this idea that you
can then go the other way as well
you can go forwards and take leaps and
loops forwards
in the stitch in the weaving of of this
journey that we're on
and you can begin to that the wider that
your
your evolutionary lens becomes the more
collective it becomes
the more of the tapestry and the fabric
of
reality or of space-time you can see
so it's like you're no longer just doing
a little stitchy
you know pattern in the fabric that
you've been making for you you then
suddenly see a whole section of the
weave that's been created
and you suddenly see your place in that
oh i did that little stitch
there where i was part of that and then
and then it's like you pan out and
you're
it's it's fast beyond comprehension
um because there are so many beings and
they're all one being
and they're all weaving this incredible
tapestry together
and it's within this this vibrating
rippling fabric of space time
so there's a lot of play in here as well
and uh and i think it's important to
have to kind of
open one's heart to that you know
yeah beautifully said richard
beautifully
yeah i you know reincarnation answers
certain questions but in many ways
uh it it really it's kind of changes the
direction of the questions that we're
asking it just opens us to a much more
complex universe
where we don't necessarily know the
rules of where everything is going where
it's heading
but we can begin to explore it with a
different set of hypotheses a different
set of assumptions
you know there is one question that we
put into this category i would like to
make sure that we
that we get to and that is the question
about suicide
because it obviously comes from a very
deep place and
one person asked what happens with the
soul of a person who commits suicide
right and uh so if i'll i'll just throw
something
in and then hand it to you but
in a reincarnating universe where
nothing is eternal
everything is constantly changing and
we're learning in incremental bits
suicide is just one more episode of
learning it
it's not a mortal sin it's not doesn't
lead to eternal damnation
there are many many reasons why people
may take their lives and we may call
them all suicide but they're not
all the same kind of suicides they have
very very different
motivational structures but even if
we're dealing with a suicide that comes
as
an act of desperation or an act of
almost cowardice we might say if it were
that
even that kind of act it is
greeted by the universe with
understanding and with compassion
when we die and we begin to go through
the life review and we debrief our life
with the other levels of intelligence
and beings of intelligence that surround
us
i mean let's face it life inside time
and space is hard
it's challenging and people get
themselves in all sorts of boxes and
dead ends where they
they get desperate but even
acts made in desperation do not have
eternal consequences
and we are not punished for such acts we
are we are
met and we have to learn from them
it's important i mean all of our actions
can become habitual
so anger can become a habit a character
trait
suicide can also become a habit that
shows up
in multiple incarnations so it's
important to confront the limits
that led us to such a desperate act
and find out how to bring that those
limits to a different outcome to bring
our life into a different outcome
but it certainly certainly i don't think
suicide leads to anything like
this perpetual estrangement
from the intelligence of the universe or
the love of the universe
your thoughts richard you know i was
thinking
how suicide is almost um
it's always almost loneliness taken to
its
far far extreme isn't it you know where
it's become so unbearable
you know that that's the only option you
feel there is
um and so that's a very
human condition you know it's it as you
said it's like
it's absolutely understandable that we
feel at times deeply lonely and
sometimes the conditions
that surround us are so difficult and
challenging
that you know one can empathize
empathize
with that and um and i think you're
right i think you know
in in one of the um recordings i did
recently that i shared with you was um
and it's i think we're going to put a
link to it it's the
the i called the rebirth sequence and
the and it's it's sort of
these stages of moving from uh dying
and going through these bardo stages and
but very simply laid out and the final
stage is called i call the arms of the
mother
and it has various levels to it but the
arms of the mother is that that's what
you land in
um at when you've gone through those
sequences those
that life review and you're coming into
that
place of self-forgiveness you know
because
you are forgiven but you have to forgive
yourself
and that includes also not just you know
that includes acts
of of aggression and violence towards
others
or it could be things like murder you
know and you know
terrible things that take place on this
earth plane
so the view from without you know
outside the human this human plane
into from the arms of the mother is
not as you said it's not about
revenge or retribution it's simply about
reconciliation
and transmutation and a lot of the time
it's about forgiveness
self-forgiveness you know we we have to
at some level the soul has to learn from
whatever it's done and then
absorb and integrate that and forgive
and move on
and become stronger through it and
that's what this whole
reincarnating pathway journey is
offering us so if you really
tune in deeply like you have chris and
your
journeys into the you know into the
into the field of wounding and uh in
in your book as you describe you realize
that
you have done we've all done atrocious
things
you know in our history we carry the
memory
of of terrible deeds that we were
party to or part of or on the victim
side of
and and carry and all kinds of levels
all inside us i mean i
i have a hunch that a lot of that memory
is co is in the non-coding dna
in our body you know the the so-called
junk dna that that that
forms almost 90 percent of of our dna
that's that's
not we can't understand we can't see
that it cut what it codes for
um and so somewhere in inside here are
all those
those memories of of places we've been
people we've been
things we've done and isn't the the most
beautiful insight that arises from that
from an incarnating worldview
that we are always forgiven
you know we we love we you know and
knowing that
you know that it it opens up the
the journey of the higher soul you know
because then the soul begins to
experience itself as light as as a
christ
impulse or a buddha impulse and it
begins to kind of really become a beacon
and wishes to help others and be of
service
and enter into that higher evolution and
that seems to me
to be the natural progression of
the deep and
you know that deep kind of encounter
with the nature of what we call evil or
or
you know or sin you know and and that
is like the or suffering you know that
is the edge
that that helps us become better people
better beings
you know more beautiful beings
ultimately through
self-forgiveness and forgiveness of
others and
um and it but it takes a wide it's a big
it's a big stretch for some people that
i understand that it's a big stretch
so yeah yeah the forgiveness of
ourselves and forgiveness of others but
also restitution
there's nothing that we've done that we
can't repair that we can't make better
because we have opportunity we have time
we can change our past by changing
our present and by moving forward we can
make restitution
we can help we can bring healing where
we brought injury before
yeah maybe i'm very much aware that we
have many questions that are
stacking up in the q a but i know that
we wanted to touch briefly
on the coming shift because for a couple
of questions about the coming shift let
me just
mention a couple one person wrote
i feel very worried about the changes
ahead that you spoke about
and wonder if you could offer a sense of
hope to those of us who are struggling
and another person said i think this
shift that you are discussing
can happen in as soon as 20 years
so very different kind of takes on this
and i think there is
um
i i think there is great grounds for
hope
and it's not not the hope that we can
avoid
the suffering that's coming at us so
that we can change it
but uh the hope based on trust
and trust on the intelligence of the
universe
and that the intelligence that had
brought us through the oxygen crisis
billions of years ago and the
intelligence that gave us the
50 increase in the size of our brain
200 000 years ago and the intelligence
that we see bubbling up underneath us
all over layer after layer in the
natural world
that intelligence has brought the human
race to this point
in its story where it is basically
forcing us to shed the limitations
of living at a level of awareness of
just our private egoic
body mind awareness and the summons
is to live out of a deeper soul
awareness
with a deeper set of our felt connection
to other beings and to other species
and to the planet as a whole and to life
as a whole
i think there's tremendous grounds for
hope
but the kind of hope that is not the
hope and the avoidance of
pain and suffering but the type of hope
that's born in the middle
of pain and suffering out of a deep deep
conviction
that there is a a deeper intelligence
expressing itself we may not be able to
see the full parameters of this
intelligence
but we can we can have the confidence
that this tele
intelligence is functioning here as it
does function in other areas of life
exactly and and that that intelligence
is
essentially benevolent you know it it is
it has it has that it
you know its highest as i described just
now it's like
it through suffering it comes to know
its
higher nature you know and so as we
experience that as individual souls so
as
more and more of us begin to come to
that point
inside our inside our our own souls
evolution
then the whole of humanity begins to
come towards that
realization that we are actually one
being here
doing this you know and and so we see
this externally through the
through the way we our world now
operates through the internet and
through
you know this this global connectivity
that we now have
and yet we also see all the shadows
through that
more clearly than we ever have and but
we're also we have the capacity
potentially to kind of heal
the situation more than we ever have
because we have this connectivity
and humanity seems to kind of
need to drive itself to the edge of a
precipice
sometimes it seems to be a pattern i
again talking to the
indigenous people i've been talking to
recently you know
they say you know in their memory banks
their racial memory banks are oh this
has happened
you know many many times you know that
we've come to crisis
and uh and and they're talking millions
of years even you know their
memory banks go a long long way and um
so you know sometimes we have to come to
these crux points
in order for there to be enough
of a kind of energy shift for us to push
us
you know to push us over and through and
uh that's not a it's not a pleasant
situation and it and as that energy
builds more and more towards that
we will collectively feel more and more
uneasy
in our in our sort of body biome however
in the soul awareness that
you know as we as we expand into that
more and more deeply and into that trust
that field of trust that's underpinning
the whole process and that's underlying
creation
that then begin that can then begin to
inform our biology
and and and it really does you know that
i know that chris and myself we both
feel deeply safe in this world
even as the world begins to move closer
and closer towards what looks like a
kind of
you know armageddon type scenario
but there's this underlying benevolence
and as you say chris
intelligence that is that is
preparing us for this quantum leap and
um we have to kind of really
sink into that trust field and that that
is
embedded in the eternal nature of our
soul
um so this journey into kind of
expanding our
awareness of the incarnating universe
and
humanity is really really important
because it opens up first of all opens
up the mind
to begin to like play again like you
know this is like
when we were teenagers the teenage mind
loves this realm you know and and for
many of us when we went into our
kind of 20s and 30s then because of the
way we condition mentally
intellectually by the materialistic
viewpoint
many of us then these kind of
conditioning
uh paradigms fall over us like like a
kind of
heavy cloak and so it's
it actually can be a great fun and a
huge relief to kind of
shed some of that stuff and it doesn't
mean we're shedding science and all this
wonderful
um revelations it just means we're
opening up to a deeper
kind of set of possibilities and and the
mind then kind of can go
wow anything really is possible you know
we do
live in a in a you know in a magical
universe where
yeah we can't understand everything yet
you know and but
you know science is very slow in its
kind of methodical
processing it moves at its own pace
but the mind can really expand and and
open up to
to great vistas and that that's the
first stage i think in
in beginning to kind of feel
safe inside oneself again
so i want i really hope that that's uh a
part of the journey that
um we can help build chris here together
by
continuing to map these other realms
yeah yes very much so
we're committed we're committed we're
here
and you know one of the things i talk
about in terms of this coming era
is the birth of the diamond soul in
history and
i think actually the conversation that
you and i are having here with all the
people who are gathered with us
is a small part of that process to
become
because to become aware of reincarnation
to become intellectually
and in your heart aware of this larger
story that's playing itself
out inside your life when you become
aware of something you give
permission for that thing to manifest
more deeply into your life
so to become aware of reincarnation to
become aware of the soul
and that the dynamics actually i think
it facilitates the emergence of the
diamond soul
in your own awareness in your own being
and i suspect this
awareness can come in slowly for some
people and in some circumstances and it
could come in
dramatically and with sort of stunning
effects in other circumstances
but it's it's all coming in and to be
conscious of something
consciously of the possibility actually
facilitates this deeper integration
uh taking place
shall we shift to some of the uh the
questions coming in
from our live audience yeah before the
money that we haven't touched on
no before we do that i want to just nail
a couple of the gene keys questions
oh yes yes a bit more specific to me um
you know someone asked and i have been
asked this before like uh this
this this notion that of walk-ins of
like
a being that comes into um
a body and kind of supersedes it in some
way
um and you know some people say look if
i've had an experience like that and i
was completely changed after that
experience i was a new person
and you know should i study a different
genki's profile you know and
from that date and what i'd say is that
um
it's important to have both um because
you know it's it's uh it's like um
you need the old root stock you know
it's really important to have the root
stock
and then if there's a new kind of hybrid
that's come in
those two have to harmonize together so
you can use both and you can explore
both
and that's an added complexity for you
but it's also a rich journey
to explore so play with that as you wish
i would say
and there's also a question about gene
keys one's gene keys which are these
algorithms that kind of determine our
our kind of awakening journey and our
incarnation
and its themes um you know they
do they is there a continuity between
them absolutely i would say that there
is a continuity
between uh sequences but you don't have
the same sequences
and well you might through through you
know
some kind of slight of hand of the
creator or whatever
but it's not this you know that there's
a
there are there are patterns woven
within the matrix and the numbers
that if you were able to really look at
different lots of different like
lifetimes you begin to see
these patterns and sequences but they're
not always like obvious and clear
i can i can feel them and as when i used
to do
um human desire i mean not human design
but when i used to do genki's readings
for people and human design readings
um i would see all these patterns um
between people and their families and
their partners and their loved ones
and you get to see recurring numbers and
sequences so you know and it's really
really a lot so you get to see wow this
stuff that is so
densely woven these patterns and the
fabric of these numbers
that um it's showing me something that
is not just
kind of kept to one lifetime it actually
continues on
it's the in there these threads that
like i said earlier that we're weaving
so yes there are continuities um
more on that at a later date i think but
um
yeah let's let's move to some of the
live questions
so many good questions here i'm just
scanning through the list of
so many wonderful questions we're going
to need more time richard
uh one touches me here says why do you
suppose that souls reincarnate for short
periods of time
like the infant that dies just after
birth
or a young child that dies very young
these are great heartaches of course for
any parent
or anyone who experiences the death of a
child
and i just suggest that things which
look very large
from inside the time space perspective
and from
inside the egoic time space perspective
from the soul perspective don't look
necessarily the same
that it it feels it feels
tragic for us to have a short-lived
life but for the soul they're all
short-lived lives
a 10-minute life and a hundred year life
are all relatively small bits of time
against the vast spectrum of the soul's
lifetime
and sometimes you know some of the past
life therapists have
engaged souls who have had this
experience and they all generally tend
to agree that for the most part
they are chosen incarnations they chose
the incarnation knowing they were
getting into
sometimes the out the lesson was for
someone else
it was to see the be the the grain of
sand and the oyster that
leads to a development of other people
sometimes it's but they are chosen
they are they are all part of an ongoing
and unfolding process
and it doesn't mean of course with
reincarnation we really have
true intellectual permission to really
understand
that our life does not begin at birth
and it does not end at death so we can
let go of the heartache
i mean there is separation in death and
there is separating and there is pain
when a life that we wanted to spend a
lot of time with
we don't get to spend that time with but
life does not end at death
relationships do not end at death and
purpose is not
extinguished in death so
yeah beautifully answered that's such a
tender question as well
um so malavika has asked a question
about um
uh the soul outgrowing gyro and moving
on to other systems
and um and can the soul determine where
it will go
when and as what and
you know so there's this notion of how
much
um free will does the soul have
and are there other kind of forces
at work this is a big deep deep question
um i kind of i think we
touched on it um a little bit in our
sessions but
um for me it's that it's that kind of
notion of these two forces of involution
and evolution
and there's evolution where the soul
let's
talk about it as a soul evolution so the
soul is evolving
through through its experiences
coming in and out of the form and
it's getting broader and wider and
more aware of its universal nature
right and then there's also another
force involution
which is the arms of the mother
you know the whole the mother itself the
whole mother ship
the whole collective consciousness you
know the the god consciousness the
divine consciousness
that's doing all this through all these
these monads these you know these
fractals these holographic
children you know that are different
sort of crystalline aspects of itself
but they are it then so the whole is
also doing it
so there is there's both a kind of
choreography
from the whole taking place and yet
within that there's also
this kind of serpentine
freedom and flow as the as the
crystals the individual crystal souls
diamond souls let's call them
become more and more aware that they are
of what they really are
that they are the whole and yet they
also exist in the paradox of being
a part of the whole how can that both
the ocean and the drop how can both of
those take place
how can that occur that's beyond the
mind's capacity
to understand in you know that's a
paradox
and a paradox of of startling truth that
can only be known
as a kind of as a as a through a bolt of
of revelation i would say so
both are true you know that we determine
where we're going
the soul determines but also the mother
determines the mothership has
its own choreography and dance that
we're a part of
and it's it's an incredible dance
playing with that paradox um
that's all i can say is just to lay out
the paradox before us so that we can
consider it
yeah thanks malabika
oh i think you're muted chris
thank you yep a question from catherine
says buddhists say that reincarnation is
like transferring the light from one
candle to another
what do you think of this interpretation
this way it can be transferred
this way it can transfer both personal
and collective karmic stuff i think
you know when the buddha was asked a
question about what is the self
and the self that incarnates so we have
many ways of thinking about
reincarnation which are not very subtle
and not very adequate and
many people think of the reincarnation
as a self
migrating from life to life and when the
buddha was asked this question
he had a series of candles lined up
and he had one lit and then he lit the
second one blew out the first one
let the third one blew out the second
one and pass the candle flame
all the way down the line and so then
the question is at the end
is it the same candle flame or is it a
different candle flame
and the answer is well it's both but
buddhist wants to emphasize it's a
different candle flame
and it's actually if you get right down
to it it's a different candle flame from
second to second
so the important point here for the
buddhism is the teaching of no self
that and no self is the teaching
not that we aren't individuals that's an
often it's a misguided interpretation of
it it doesn't mean that there isn't an
individuality here what it means is
there is no permanent individuality and
there is no
separate so there is no
permanent self which never changes and
there is no
separate self which is cut off from the
rest of existence
so that the individuality which is
i think the essentials well the center
of our individual experience
is open it's porous it takes an
information and experiences and energy
from beings it gives out its own energy
and it's not static it's constantly
changing over time so i think if we
were to take the buddhist example of the
candle it would lead to
a more subtle description
of the categories of reincarnation
and that i think is the great value of
the exercise it's the subtlety of that
description
likewise i think that feel theory
is very it's a very good set of
categories and
and metaphors to talk about the soul
that
that the soul isn't an entity or a thing
or a machine or a separate you know
nut if we think in souls of souls in
terms of
feels fields are by definition open
they're open at the boundaries there's
an easier give and take
uh between fields and so
yeah good question catherine beautiful
answer chris
really that was really beautifully put
and um really great to have your your um
vast knowledge of you know different
theologies and
here as well brought to the fall um
some nishad has asked about the bardo
realms which
maybe both of us could say something on
um and she's suggesting is it possible
this life is in
bardo so those of you don't know the
tibetan buddhist
um i think there's only tibetans i think
is it only the tibetans that
name the bardo chris that's their
vocabulary i think yeah
so there's this notion of the bardo is
the is the
transitory um threshold state
between lives or it that's one way of
understanding it
it's the stages as we move from one
state to another state and there's a
whole
description of different you know stages
and states
that they will describe as we move from
birth to death and death of birth and
um so there's a transformational process
that goes on in there
and there's also attachments to those
different
layers and layerings so um
the way i kind of would understand it on
a very broad level
is that because the another way you
could the word bardo has started to be
used
by western people more perhaps is
uh as a to refer to a kind of
an impermanent realm a changing realm
a transitionary realm or a transitionary
world or sphere and so in that from that
perspective
yes it is possible that the earth is one
of those bardos
i mean it is one of those experiences
that the whole is exploring
and it explores these theaters let's
call them theaters you know so it
explores this theater and there's all
these
characters and storylines that
come together in this theater and all
these plays that take place
and and the gr and the whole is the
audience
you know that's that's just watching the
whole
you know expansion of this process
and and the whole or the audience is
outside of space
and time and yet all the bardos exist
within space and time so they are the
they are these
journeys and theaters and productions
you know from hell to heaven and all
these
you know because there's the heaven
realms of the deities and all the bliss
realms and then there's the
and then there's the hell realms with
all the suffering and then there's all
the places in between
and all of those are in one sense you
could say that they are
they are bardos experiences um between
states and and so yeah it's all a
theater
as shakespeare said so anyway that's my
my
my starting though but you might want to
add some more of your wisdom
well now you say it well it's it is
sobering i mean the teaching
there are different aspects of the bardo
teaching and the word bardo is used in
different ways but
you know it one of the ways it's used is
in terms of the levels of existence
unless you say from the lowest hell
realm to the hungry ghost realm
animal realm human lower deities and
higher deity realms that there are these
are
exist in the cosmos they exist in the
spiritual world that lies outside of
physical reality and we enter into those
various bardos
various levels of reality depending upon
the quality of our consciousness that we
have accumulated over
a course of many lifetimes so
but then it gets much more intimate when
the teacher says
all those bartles are taking place right
now
in the physical world right here right
so there are deity realms there are
people who are born with a silver spoon
in their mouth and they just seem to
everything always goes well with them
they're the captain of the football team
where
everything just kind of breaks their way
and there are other people who are
living in hill realms and uh everything
is changing
everything is turning over and then we
can get even more intense it reminds me
of a story i don't know whether i can
remember it completely but there was a
samurai who came to a zen master
and he wanted to understand the
difference between heaven and hell
and the zen master basically stood there
and he began to insult the samurai and
tell him that his clothes were dirty and
his sword was dull and he really wasn't
wasn't worthy of the name of samurai
and the samurai of course had permission
to kill anyone that they deemed
deserving of death and so he pulled out
his steroid and he held it over the
the zen master about to cut off his head
and the zen master said
that's hell and then the
samurai recognized the great compassion
of the teacher who had put his life at
risk in order to give him this lesson
and he immediately felt compassion
and put away his sword and the teacher
said
that's heaven so it's not just
states that last for an entire lifetime
their states that lasts
minute by minute we're constantly going
in and out of different
levels of reality minute by minute
then the invitation is what is it that
doesn't change
what is it that is inside us that
witnesses
everything and doesn't change
as our emotions change as our bodies
change as all these things change
what is it that doesn't change when we
discover that
and then we hold that in our awareness
while we are living these changes
it changes the quality of the life that
we're living it just kind of deepens it
grounds us deeper into the
into the living quality of the deep
texture of existence is to live in in
god awareness or
in the divine awareness or in the in the
awareness of the living universe
beautiful and thank you for that great
story you know it occurred to me
that um one of the great modern um
clear metaphors for the whole
reincarnative
story is is um groundhog day
you know because that film is
wonderful funny film it's so wise it's
it it hits something very deep inside us
you know and many people have had that
same feeling like this is like
this repeat of like trying things out in
different ways
and then trying to take advantage of it
and then trying
and then becoming hopeless with it and
then all the different
dramas that get played out in one
day you know and and that you could
that's the metaphor for
here this planet one like one world all
those different dramas to play out
until you come to create the perfect day
you know like the absolute just your
perfect day
what's your perfect life you know
and um and then you're kind of like oh
that's that's what it is like you know
and and and
you've brought it to the you've brought
it to the zenith to the crescendo
you've perfected your soul
within it you know even though you had
to go through some
terrible things you know and and um
yeah so i i like that idea and like
because i was
you know i know there's lots of other
questions but it just came to me as you
were talking and
um yeah
what do you think about that it's just
it's a good one isn't it
you're muted chris yeah well it is am i
on now yeah
it is you know here's the here's another
good one
let me mention this one here
sherry writes have had many traumas in
this lifetime
i'm tired of all the spiritual practices
and processing
there are so many different ones i have
done so much spiritual work
this is why i love gene keys and
richard's way of teaching
i'm at a point of just desiring to be
the love i know myself to be
and her question is do you think it is
necessary
to do past life regression i do not have
the money to go to
those who do this type of work or will
we ever just
be the love and know that that to be
enough
and i this has been the flavor of a few
of the other questions we received and
no i don't think you have to go to past
life therapy
in order to engage one's karma
conscientiously
and to heal what needs healing and to
deepen
what we have an opportunity to deepen
what's important is to live one's life
well
and if you live your life well all the
karma from your past that will
will come up in your life at some time
and circumstance and if you're living
your life well
you're taking care of business as you go
remember that reincarnation has been
going on for hundreds of thousands of
years
and it goes on and it works very well
whether or not we know
that reincarnation is happening whether
we know or believe or understand
reincarnation and karma
it's still happening it's still been
going on it was going on in the 15th
century it was going on a thousand years
ago or 2 000 years ago
what awareness of reincarnation adds
it adds an awareness and with awareness
we accelerate the process
we can speed up the process we can
we can stop avoiding things and start
embracing
more things and as we embrace more
things we solve more issues and as we
solve more issues we live a more relaxed
life a more open and challenging life
so no i my two senses i don't think
anyone needs to do past life therapy in
order to live a very well and satisfying
life
live your life deeply it's all
all your karma is right here around you
at the time
live it well live it deeply if you want
some help
getting around a particular issue or
getting a particular boulder out of your
life
well that can be it can be helpful if
you can do it
but it's kind of a it's an extra
great and a lovely question as well you
know really
beautifully phrased like that the being
just is it's enough to just be it is of
course it's enough to be
that's a that's the most that's the
that's the most we can do
really you know so i'm i'm very much
resonate with that question
um there's a question here about old and
new souls
and um number of souls and you know
and and and kind of populations
expanding and contracting and it's
interesting question
and um you know if you think about it
like
most of the answers lie in nature you
know and
and if you're observant and you're
listening and you're looking and you're
really contemplating nature
most of the answers are there you know
like
you're walking through a forest or a
wood and you look in
there and you see all these plants and
trees and there are old
trees and there are kind of middle-aged
trees and then there are young
kind of ones shooting up everywhere and
then there are parasite trees and there
are
all kinds of you know there are weeds
and there's
you know they're all in there and
they're all part of this
ecosphere and the same here on this
earth you know
on gaia we have
you know enlightened beings
you know we have beautiful
beings we have villains and ruffians and
vagabonds and
we have all the different souls
exploring
and experimenting we have young ones
young
little saplings that are still learning
that kind of
you know maybe get involved in all kinds
of
difficult things and suffering deep in
suffering and deep into corruption
um and and and learning and learning
through that
you know and then there are older ones
perhaps who've done all that
and they're like here and they're like
trying to kind of
work more deeply into the collective or
into some you know
area where they've taken on a lot of
suffering you know
to to heal either inside themself on
behalf of the whole
or they're working in service in the
service professions or whatever where
you know in service in some way so
there's all these different
you know storylines and threads
within the picture and and and sometimes
you know the forest dies back in places
and it
and it's less populous and then there's
sometimes when it suddenly expands and
it's more
and there's and it does it's thriving
but they're all
phases then none of it's healthy or
unhealthy
it's just what it is it's just part of
the of the
the whole theater the tapestry so
you know one of the things that the
whole reincarnating view
the rebirth view really brings to me is
this sense of
you know amorality you know and that
doesn't doesn't take away
you know true morals and ethics and you
know which are naturally
inherent in human beings i believe but
there's this kind of it's just going on
and there's a journey taking place and
we're at some
point in that journey right now the
collective is in some point right now
our individuality is at some point
participating in that right now and as i
i am i was really sharing deeply
recently in the
process i'm taking a big retreat
thousands of people in the venus
sequence where
it's a process of healing trauma
um emotional trauma especially and
um i was saying you know when you heal
some pattern inside your own being
then you reach out and you heal it in
the hole in the collective
because it is all just one
rippling web one interconnected
woven web i mean i seem to be saying the
same thing over and over but
i really want people to understand
you know that
yes it's kind of this is this is the
theater
old souls new souls you know and then
there's old cells and maybe yes when you
get
to a certain stage you have more choice
available to you
you can leave you can go somewhere else
you know it's like you've earned it
you've earned enough money to be able to
buy a ticket
somewhere else further and and it's
you know that's the kind of metaphor so
but yeah then you might also come back
you know and bring your wisdom here so
i i think there's a lot of i think
there's a lot
a lot of you know imagination that is
needed when we're entering into this
into this kind of territory
yes very much so you know reincarnation
you have to live with it for a long time
and then bring that bring the questions
that
people are asking to into that
reincarnation paradigm
and sit with it for a long time to get
intimations
of the depth the way it recontextualizes
and gives a new context for
the way we usually think about these
things and here's a question that really
stretches us
a question by jacqueline she and
this is a challenging question
how can collective suffering be a
creative process
rooted in cosmic love
how can create collective suffering be a
creative process
rooted in cosmic love
that's a hard question just because the
sheer skill first
it works it's a question that's hard for
an individual life
how does suffering you know
is how is suffering in our individual
life compatible with the idea
that the universe is compassionate and
loving but at a collective level how
does collective
suffering of the type that we were
talking about in our third dialogue
in our coming you know our coming
challenging period of history
how can that make magnitude of that
suffering of that magnitude be a
creative process
rooted in cosmic love
and i'm reminded that ramakrishna the
great hindu saints said
if you want to understand god
you must be willing to look evil in the
face
because evil is not outside the divine
but it's actually
part of the divine process and suffering
is part of the divine process
so if we want to understand how
any compassionate person wants to reduce
suffering and end suffering that's the
natural impetus that's what we want and
we see
suffering as the enemy and it's
something we want to stop
but when we start to second-guess
creation
when we start to think there has to have
been a better way to do it
god you know damn it you know couldn't
you have given us
everything that you want us to become
without dragging us through so many
centuries and millennia of pain and
suffering
are taking us more in the future
that's a wonderful impulse but
that assumes that we we know what
the project is that we know what the
agenda is
and that we know what is the best
way to get to that particular outcome
so we would have to ask what is the
project
what is the the project of cosmic love
what are we doing here
what is creation growing on this planet
earth
and could it grow a species
of diamond beings could it grow a
species of fully awakened beings and
fully empowered beings and a species
that can
create out of the sheer power
of the divine consciousness that lives
that is flowing in their awareness
without having to have gone through some
of the ordeals that we have gone through
in our long evolutionary agenda
this is challenging and i and i
on the one hand i want to affirm the
compassion behind the question
and i want to invite a deep
sitting with the scale of creation
we have to look at the galaxies and look
at the stars
to appreciate the scale that the
universe thinks on
and the scale of the creative
intelligence thinks on and look at all
the stages of evolution that humanity
and all life on this planet has gone
through suffering seems to be part of it
it's just part of the grit of life that
brings us forward
now i think we may be coming into a time
when we won't have to grow through
suffering so much as we have in the past
that we
i think suffering has been part of the
paradigm of how we have grown
in the past and it may be that we'll be
able to grow
out of grace more in the future
that we be challenged by creativity
not simply by our pain but certainly
suffering has been part of the stuff
which has brought us
where we are and i think where we're
going
it suffering takes things away from us
it breaks us down
it doesn't allow us to continue the way
we are it forces us to reassess
and do and to look at things anew
and i think we're coming into a time
where in order
for something radically new
to come into the human story
we have to let go of what we have been
and letting go of what we have been is
hard work
and does involve a certain amount of
suffering
but the sooner we cooperate with this
process the sooner we surrender to it
the sooner we let it go
and the sooner we start taking care of
each other
with that deep compassion which is
rooted in that cosmic love
the sooner the suffering ends and the
creativity begins
i know that's not a completely adequate
answer to the depth of this question but
it's
it's just a piece
thank you so much for that i mean i'll
add a layer
um which is in in the in the book i
wrote the gene keys
book i laid out um
the kind of as i see it the codes of
consciousness
available to humanity you know and
and so you see this through these
shadows and these different sh
these low frequency shadow patterns that
we all
you know play out with playing in the
suffering
and then hidden inside those uh these
potential gifts
and then even inside those gifts those
gifts of the creative flowering the
healing if you like of
the the growing through that suffering
and then out of that comes this
this fruit which is i call the cities
the 64 cities
and this is like um probably where we
want to bring our talk to a
close with this with this notion of um
there's something hidden deep in the in
the core of that suffering
and it is something so beyond what we
can understand now
and it's something so beautiful and
it's another realm it's another
dimension it's another way another field
of learning you know and we might call
it grace
or we might call it bliss and
it's another whole and well
you could even say we may be entering
the epoch in which incarnation itself
starts to fall apart and starts to open
up
and so that we no longer need to move
in and out of these forms in the way we
did
we may one day look back and go oh yeah
we used to have to differentiate in that
way
um because of the shadow and the
impetus of the shadow inside us but now
we've explored
that fully we can sit in these cities
these cities are the these these higher
states of consciousness these avataric
fields
of oneness and we can still retain our
souls
wisdom and individuality and its
journeys and its continuation and it's
continued adventures but from within a
much
greater field of understanding and
compassion
you know and these cities are the are
are kind of
these buddhic fields um that
are opening up for us in the future and
i i think it's
you know chris and i we set this talk
for good friday
for good reason in a way it just fell
there
very beautifully because it's it's this
notion of the
constant rebirthing of the universe
of itself from within itself
and um it's just it
it you know i was saying recently that
it's like
if you take the the image of the
butterfly
you know of what a butterfly is the myth
of the butterfly that the
uh the allegory the the metaphor of the
butterfly
it's it's it's do you need any more
proof for incarnation
for reincarnation than that you know
that that
right there is is the emblem
of what is hidden inside our suffering
of what's hidden
inside this this thing here
and and in this whole journey so so yes
i think we're moving into this
next phase and it's good to be realistic
and it's also good to really expand and
open up into that and let your heart
really ring out
with what's what the what the boundless
potentials are
inside you of your soul and
what happens if you really have worked
those shadows through
and then the full soul can come in
the full soul can come in and that the
body would hardly be able to hold it to
contain it because the
the incredible frequency of the quantum
field
that's generated from that what we call
those cities those
and then then we start to be co-creators
with the creator because then we're like
you know our thoughts become uh
all-empowering and we become these
children of
of god or these children of christ um
where we get to play in a much vaster
field that field that chris was talking
about the galac
the galactic level the the universal
level would become universal
consciousness and we
we can kind of interact with dimensions
um
and paradigms that right now we can't
even begin to fathom
so um
i think there's cause for great hope
more than hope
certainty really um but we have a few
boulders to clear first
i
well i'm glad you brought in easter
because it is good friday and this is a
special
uh weekend in the christian calendar and
i know that you and i have both been
touched by christianity by its teaching
and by people who have been
steeped in christian teaching
and we have been christians and we have
been
hindus at different lifetimes and we
have been muslims and we have been
aborigines we we have been all the
religions of the world
and the non-religions and atheists we
have
we have sampled and and drunk from those
wells
we have been male and female
and in that constant collecting of
experience and gathering experience and
bringing that experience into higher
higher levels of fruition when we
encounter figures like
jesus or like siddhartha gautama the
buddha or like muhammad the prophet
when those beings are pictured in art
they're always pictured
filled with light they have halos around
them and
light just emanates from their body and
they have so much
energy in them that they can heal beings
with a touch
and easter of course is is
death and rebirth the the
indestructibility
of life death and rebirth continually
going
and also of course the symbol of
compassion
because this is a being who did not have
to suffer
but who chose to suffer out of his
great love for the world and every
mother
worth their salt every father worth
their salt
understands that and would suffer for
their children
for this those qualities those precious
qualities
those are the qualities that we're
developing those are the qualities that
we're bringing
in and empowering and empowering as
as richard said the the power of the
soul
the energy of the soul is huge
and to be able to internalize the soul
we must make our body
capable of functioning at that level the
way
christ was able to function at that
level
the way the buddha and the prophet were
able to function at that level
so i think that's i think that's what
we're coming to in history at a time
when
we who have been struggling in the
shadows for so many generations
are now beginning to come into a time of
light
a time of of great culmination a time of
greater freedom greater compassion
greater wisdom
and where that will take us
will be a great adventure an adventure
for us
all i really appreciate this
conversation we've been having richard i
really appreciate everyone
who's gathered around us and made this
possible and made this adventure
uh possible thank you very much
everybody
a deep thank you to me or from from me
also and to me
[Laughter]
to my soul um to all of you who
who've joined us and uh who are joining
us in in other timelines
and in other dimensions
um and thank you so much chris and we
will we are going to continue our
journey chris and i together
um and uh we'll have more for you in the
future i think uh so yeah see what that
turns into
good